Human activities adversely affect global Warming, and this is a significant concern to the entire Earth. The Earth consists of all the
essential elements for making human life possible on Earth. Even after the importance of Earth and its environmental conditions for
human existence, humans continue to mistreat it and cause harmful effects for it. Furthermore, with the beginning of several inventions
and industrialization, the essence for the assurance of modern lifestyle, Earth’s living conditions are deteriorating rapidly.
This is also a reason why the entire modernization is also a significant concern for the global enthusiasts, adoring Mother Earth and
care for the coming generation.
The greenhouse effect is an essential action in the Earth’s atmosphere that maintains the optimum warmth of the surface and makes the
existence of life possible on the planet. Greenhouse gases like carbon dioxide, Hydrogen, methane, and CFCs form the layer on the
Earth’s atmosphere and prevent the Sun rays and thermal energy from escaping the atmospheric layer. However, due to various human
actions like the burning of fossil fuels, greenhouse gases released in excess, and then totally prohibit the escape of thermal energy
from the Earth. The entire phenomenon thus results in the rise in Earth’s temperature, known as Global Warming.
Human activities contribute to 75% more in global Warming than the natural phenomenon like gases released by volcanic eruptions,
smoke emitting from wildfires, emission of radioactive gases and substances, and others. Another significant role of human actions
in global Warming is energy production from fossil fuels. The energies used for transportation modes or operating the industries
and generating power add to the cause even more. Further, all the activities result in the emission of carbon dioxide and other harmful
gases in the atmosphere.
Nature already provided us with several trees across all the regions for releasing oxygen to ensure the survival of living beings on
Earth. However, the global rise is also rising due to other human activities like deforestation for several purposes.
This leads to non-absorption of carbon dioxide exhaled by all the animals and humans. This also reduces the assurance of fresher oxygen
that we need for breathing. Additionally, nitrogenous fertilizers for promoting agriculture are also considered a role of human
activities leading to Global Warming.
Chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) are produced mainly from the cooling equipment like the aerosol spray cans, production of polystyrene 
packing materials, and others. Thus, the CFCs produced destroys the ozone layer and is another significant result of human activities,
leading to global warming. Studies also unveiled that other greenhouse gases released from paddy fields and garbage landfills are
also the causes of the issue. All the roles of human activities in global Warming eventually result in floods, droughts, hotter 
summers, reduced winters, and several other natural calamities and disasters. This cause an interruption for the existence of life 
forms on Earth.
Human activities play a significant role in global warming, and as an effect, since 2018, there is a rising average temperature
in the entire seasons across the World. Scientists at IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) have suggested inhibiting
the human actions in global Warming. Therefore, all the daily activities of humans eventually add to the causes of global warming.
The entire Earth’s surface has witnessed unforeseen Warming since the earlier times, especially in the current decade. With each
passing year since 1977, the seasons are getting hotter, and the span for winters is reducing. Furthermore, the World recorded 16
out of 17 hottest years since 2001, and 2016 was the hottest year of the entire World’s history. The expert agriculturists also
unveiled that atmospheric attributes have been altered in the current years. Everyone notices how Warming and cooling are becoming
unpredictable, and that is the remarkable effect of climate change and global warming due to several human activities.
The main gas contributing to the greenhouse effect and trapping the warm sun radiations in the Earth’s atmosphere is carbon dioxide.
Researchers and experts have also cleared that methane, carbon dioxide, excessive water vapours, CFCs, and other harmful substances
in the environment that deplete the ozone layer are available in excessive amounts. They act to prevent the ozone layer from
trapping only specific frequencies of infrared rays and dissipate maximum rays back from out of the Earth’s surface.
The gases trap the heat in an excessive amount at the Earth’s surface and then keep the planet warmer. A small amount of it is
essential for ensuring the existence of life on Earth, but an excess of it might even make the survival impossible on the planet.
Expert climate researchers have realized that the convergence of substances that help in ozone layer depletion of the environment
has developed rapidly due to the emergence of industrial revolution and urbanization. Furthermore, the cooling systems like the air
conditioners use the CFCs, which are mainly responsible for depleting the ozone layer that also acts as the protective covering of
the Earth. The rising usage of CFCs has resulted in developing a hole in the ozone layer and thinning of it, which is essential for 
protecting us from harmful infrared rays entering the Earth. Thus, this is evident how ozone-harming substances act to raise the 
Earth’s warmth and cause Global Warming.

Not only these, but there are many more examples and evidence which shows the role of human activities in Global Warming and climatic
changes. For example, the increasing pollution of various types is mainly due to gas emissions from vehicles and waste and gases from
the industries. This eventually leads to the trapping of harmful substances in the Earth’s atmosphere. Such substances raise the
temperature of the planet and are also dangerous for humans and animals as they have some fatal effects. Due to the rising pollution
level along with Global Warming, it had become a significant reason for the extinction of various species from the planet.
There are several steps that we might take for reversing the role of human activities in global warming. First and the most crucial
step to be taken is to move towards consumption of the energy-efficient sources and renewable energy sources. Additionally, using
fossil fuels must be reduced significantly, and CFC releasing products must be used in lower amounts. We must also try our best to 
save whatever of the ozone layer is left so as to protect ourselves from the harmful radiations of Sun. Using LED bulbs is another
measure that we might choose for contributing to saving energy.
Furthermore, we must also reduce the vehicles’ dependency and walk as much as possible while travelling. This will also help in 
staying healthier and fit and will save fuel and eventually save Earth. We can also choose carpools if we have more considerable
distances to cover. Using electric vehicles, wherever available, is another effective way to contribute to energy conservation
and lower greenhouse gas emissions.

Temperature alteration at a global level has resulted in a long term action that requires constant activities and speculation for
decades. It is not such task that can be completed and achieved in just a day or two, as here we must reverse the full effect and
have to attain the older days with moderate climatic conditions. Therefore, there is no doubt that several short and long term
measures are essential by all the nations to achieve the objective.
The role of human activities in global warming is a long proven one and requires more concern. The actual action must be taken
soon against the unnatural and unpredictable weather changes. Several arrangements are also needed for gaining better results and
energize and promote the usage of fewer carbon powers across the World. We must also expand the use of sustainable power resources.
Reforestation is the other option that we must consider rather than deforestation and must develop the ways of urbanization and
modernization without increasing the latter action. This situation and issue require collective action. The entire human
population must come forward and make some efforts to convert the role of human activities in global warming to human activities
in saving the Earth.